China Stuns With Heavy Stealth Tactical Jet’s Sudden Appearance (Updated)
This is the most advanced flying machine we have seen out of China, lacking any tails and packing stealth and long range.
In something of a stunning development, China appears to already be flying a stealthy, high-performance sixth-generation crewed combat aircraft, imagery of which began to emerge today. At this early stage, we have very little idea about the precise identity of the new aircraft, but many elements of its design are very much in line with what we already knew about Chinese sixth-generation airpower aspirations.
There has also been no official comment from the Chinese Ministry of Defense or state media so far.

Aside from the sheer size of the new aircraft, which we will address in a moment, the most striking thing about it is its planform and tailless configuration. It has a modified delta wing with chine lines extending all the way to the nose area, while its central fuselage section, at least the bottom of it, is loosely reminiscent of the J-20. The broad nose could even provide space for side-by-side crew seating, although the limited views of the canopy mean we cannot be sure whether the aircraft has a single-seat or two-seat arrangement, with tandem twin seats being another option.

There was already growing evidence pointing to the fact that China’s next fighter would be tailless, and designs of this kind had previously appeared in the form of technical studies. Back in October 2021, a mysterious tailless aircraft shape appeared in satellite images of a CAC factory airfield. It was a large modified, diamond-like delta planform with a relatively thin nose section that also had a significant wingspan — broadly similar to that of a J-20. But it’s worth noting that this shape does not look the same as the aircraft we are seeing.

Beyond that, next-generation tactical combat aircraft eschewing traditional tails is a major design driver being pursued by the U.S. military, as well. This is predominantly to significantly reduce the aircraft’s radar signature across multiple bands and from all aspects. There are some aerodynamic efficiencies also to be had with such a design, especially one used for long-range operations via a reduction in aerodynamic drag, which should provide better performance for sustained high-speed dashes and cruising flight. At the same time, a tailless configuration can adversely affect overall maneuverability, even with the most advanced computerized flight control systems. There are currently no signs of thrust-vectoring engines on this aircraft, which would help enhance agility and overall stability. The engine exhausts are mounted in the best place to mask the aircraft’s infrared signature, atop the rear of its fuselage, similar to the YF-23.

While a tailless configuration, size, general shaping, and exhaust layout point directly toward a design tailored for stealth and endurance, it’s not entirely clear the exact level of enhanced low observability this new aircraft might offer. Just deleting the tail surfaces and strakes and providing a more general aerodynamic clean-up, while leveraging the same now nearly 15-year-old technology found on the the J-20, for example, would still be a massive improvement. Clearly, this aircraft incorporates significantly greater low observable technologies that are a leap ahead of the J-20, beyond its tailless design.

Also notable is the elaborate arrangement of control surfaces coupled with the tailless design, with five trailing edge control surfaces per wing. These include prominent split flaps close to the wingtips. These would be used differentially to provide yaw control in the absence of tail control surfaces, as well as deploying simultaneously to serve as air brakes.